README.md, before:

NAME
----
middleman-gibberish


SYNOPSIS
--------
password protected senstive web content with javascript only.  

the implementation is serverless and works even on s3.

DESCRIPTION
-----------
middleman-gibberish encrypts senstive content at build time, before
deployment, and wraps it with a teeny script that will prompt the user to
enter a password in order to decrypt and display it.  it relies on the
excellent, openssl compatible, gibberish implementations for ruby and
javascript:

- https://github.com/mdp/gibberish-aes
- https://github.com/mdp/gibberish

please note that the encryption is done in ruby, the decryption is done in
javascript and is therefore quite safe.

PSEUDO-CODE
-----------

```ruby

  # in ruby - at build time

  file = 'index.html'

  content = IO.binread(file)

  encrypted = encrypt(content, password)

  script = <<-____
```
```javascript

      var encrypted = #{ encrypted.to_json };
      var cookie = #{ file.to_json };

      var password = (
        get_cookie(cookie) ||
        prompt('entre teh sekrit p@ssw0rd: ')
      );

      decrypted = decrypt(encrypted);

      set_cookie(cookie, password);

      document.write(decrypted);

```
```ruby
  ____

  IO.binwrite("index.html", "<script>#{ script }</script>")

  # and then deploy 'index.html'

```

INSTALL
------
`gem install middleman-gibberish`

EXAMPLES
--------
http://ahoward.github.io/middleman-gibberish/ (password=gibberish)


USAGE
-----

```ruby

# activate the extenstion

  activate :gibberish do |gibberish|
  # set the default password

    gibberish.password = 'gibberish'

  # encrypt a page with the default password

    gibberish.encrypt 'foo.html'

  # encrypt a page with a different password

    gibberish.encrypt 'bar.html', 'p@55w0rd'

  # encrypt at set of pages with the default password

    gibberish.encrypt 'seKrit/**/**'

  # encrypt at set of pages with a different password

    gibberish.encrypt 'kayne/**/**', 'i can hold my liquor'
  end

```

NOTES
-----

- the DSL refers to files *RELATIVE TO THE BUILD DIRECTORY*, thus you may have
  to say
```ruby
    gibberish.encrypt '/about-us/index.html'
```
  vs.
```ruby
    gibberish.encrypt '/about-us'
```
  if you activated directory indexes.

- gibberish encrypts *only* in the build directory via an
  <code>after_build</code> callback.  this means you won't see encrypted
  content in development mode running <code>middleman server</code>: you will
  only see encrypted content in the build directory after running
  <code>middleman build</code>

- if you change your config/password and rebuild it'll just work.  even for
  people with previously set cookies.

- cookies expire in 1 day.  in a future release this'll be configurable.

- the sytanx for what to encrypt is a *file glob* not *regular expression*.
  it is *always* interpreted relative to the *build_dir* of your app

DEPENDENCIES
------------
middleman-gibberish relies on the gibberish gem, and that is handled the
normal/rubygem way.

middleman-gibberish also relies on the following three javascript libs at
runtime for it to function

- jquery.js
- jquery.cookie.js
- gibberish.js

all three are included in this repo.  if your application has checked them
into source/gibberish/javascripts *then they will be used*, otherwise the lib
uses versions hosted on github's CDN here:

- http://ahoward.github.io/middleman-gibberish/assets/jquery.js
- http://ahoward.github.io/middleman-gibberish/assets/jquery.cookie.js
- http://ahoward.github.io/middleman-gibberish/assets/gibberish.js

if you decide to use local copies, make sure the names match *exactly*, that is
to say, you must have *jquery.js* and not *jquery-1.2.3.4.js* in
source/javascripts.  if you aren't in the habbit of using symlinks it'd be a
good time to figure that out.

Commit message:

Update README and update template

README.md, after:

NAME
----
middleman-gibberish-redux

Why 'redux'?
------------
[middleman-gibberish](https://github.com/ahoward/middleman-gibberish) is a neat little add-on for adding a password to one or more pages in a Middleman site, but I wanted to change a few things.

### redux's password page is more responsive

Currently, middleman-gibberish doesn't correctly set the viewport for
mobile devices and it causes the decrypted page's size to be thrown off.

### redux has politer errors

Currently, middleman-gibberish calls you an asshole in its error messages if it fails to find files to encrypt. I didn't think that was very nice, and I cleaned it up a little.

### Future improvements

In the future, I'd like to touch up the template a bit more and improve the
CSS.

SYNOPSIS
--------
password protected senstive web content with javascript only.  

the implementation is serverless and works even on s3.

DESCRIPTION
-----------
middleman-gibberish encrypts senstive content at build time, before
deployment, and wraps it with a teeny script that will prompt the user to
enter a password in order to decrypt and display it.  it relies on the
excellent, openssl compatible, gibberish implementations for ruby and
javascript:

- https://github.com/mdp/gibberish-aes
- https://github.com/mdp/gibberish

please note that the encryption is done in ruby, the decryption is done in
javascript and is therefore quite safe.

PSEUDO-CODE
-----------

```ruby

  # in ruby - at build time

  file = 'index.html'

  content = IO.binread(file)

  encrypted = encrypt(content, password)

  script = <<-____
```
```javascript

      var encrypted = #{ encrypted.to_json };
      var cookie = #{ file.to_json };

      var password = (
        get_cookie(cookie) ||
        prompt('entre teh sekrit p@ssw0rd: ')
      );

      decrypted = decrypt(encrypted);

      set_cookie(cookie, password);

      document.write(decrypted);

```
```ruby
  ____

  IO.binwrite("index.html", "<script>#{ script }</script>")

  # and then deploy 'index.html'

```

INSTALL
------
`gem install middleman-gibberish`

EXAMPLES
--------
http://ahoward.github.io/middleman-gibberish/ (password=gibberish)


USAGE
-----

```ruby

# activate the extenstion

  activate :gibberish do |gibberish|
  # set the default password

    gibberish.password = 'gibberish'

  # encrypt a page with the default password

    gibberish.encrypt 'foo.html'

  # encrypt a page with a different password

    gibberish.encrypt 'bar.html', 'p@55w0rd'

  # encrypt at set of pages with the default password

    gibberish.encrypt 'seKrit/**/**'

  # encrypt at set of pages with a different password

    gibberish.encrypt 'kayne/**/**', 'i can hold my liquor'
  end

```

NOTES
-----

- the DSL refers to files *RELATIVE TO THE BUILD DIRECTORY*, thus you may have
  to say
```ruby
    gibberish.encrypt '/about-us/index.html'
```
  vs.
```ruby
    gibberish.encrypt '/about-us'
```
  if you activated directory indexes.

- gibberish encrypts *only* in the build directory via an
  <code>after_build</code> callback.  this means you won't see encrypted
  content in development mode running <code>middleman server</code>: you will
  only see encrypted content in the build directory after running
  <code>middleman build</code>

- if you change your config/password and rebuild it'll just work.  even for
  people with previously set cookies.

- cookies expire in 1 day.  in a future release this'll be configurable.

- the sytanx for what to encrypt is a *file glob* not *regular expression*.
  it is *always* interpreted relative to the *build_dir* of your app

DEPENDENCIES
------------
middleman-gibberish relies on the gibberish gem, and that is handled the
normal/rubygem way.

middleman-gibberish also relies on the following three javascript libs at
runtime for it to function

- jquery.js
- jquery.cookie.js
- gibberish.js

all three are included in this repo.  if your application has checked them
into source/gibberish/javascripts *then they will be used*, otherwise the lib
uses versions hosted on github's CDN here:

- http://ahoward.github.io/middleman-gibberish/assets/jquery.js
- http://ahoward.github.io/middleman-gibberish/assets/jquery.cookie.js
- http://ahoward.github.io/middleman-gibberish/assets/gibberish.js

if you decide to use local copies, make sure the names match *exactly*, that is
to say, you must have *jquery.js* and not *jquery-1.2.3.4.js* in
source/javascripts.  if you aren't in the habbit of using symlinks it'd be a
good time to figure that out.
